# Introduction and Synopsis of Modules

On the first day of class when Dr. Graham explained the central focus of this course how it would be an experiment of sorts, I was extremely hesitant to stay in the course. It was so unlike any other course I had taken, where the expectations were cleary, had a defined idea of "right" and "wrong" and where failure was not an option that could still appear to be an A. 

Throughout this previous semester we (my partner Kurt and I) explored various aspects of digital history through four modules all to do with a replica of a faience hippopotamus nicknamed "William". The hippopotamus will be referred to as such throughout this first section. 

In the first module we created a 3D model of William using Scann3D and began to explore the intricacies to do with making a 3D model from a replica. I am not sure we would have chosen William had we known how large of an undertaking it was dealing with something twice removed from an original. In this we created an even more imperfect model, with a jagged face, than the plaster replica we already had.

In the second module we attempted to remix our 3D model with one that we pulled from the internet of the Ishtar gate. This was done using Meshmixer. Following a major theme of the course "programming is forgetting," the textures of both William and the Ishtar Gate were lost making them virtually, and literally, unrecognizable. This created problems for what we wanted to talk about in our paradata, which is discussed in greater detail there.

In the third module we created a "Choose Your Own Adventure" type game using Twine. This centred around a fictional narrative about the excavation of William once very little information was found to do with it. So although this module was successful and caused us significantly less technical stress than the previous two, it contingued to reinforce the idea of distorting an object through its digitization.

In the final module we attempted to create an AR model of William with and without his legs. This was done using HP Reveal and the concept for his legs to be connected and then broken off came from research done about how William was orginally found with broken legs. We wanted to show the duplicity in the object, almost as if to bring the beginning of his place in Western tradition to the modern era. Once again, the textures disappeared and made it especially difficult to see William, with or without his legs, rendering this module nothing but an exercise in futility.

In this portfolio I want to explore the key question of this course "What happens to history as it gets digitized?" I will attempt to do this through careful examination of our modules, tying in class discussion and readings to add depth when applicable.

### Where to find the Modules
All of the modules and the associated work can be found at https://github.com/margaretrussell/hist3812-example-repo-for-artifact or https://github.com/KurtGrunsky/hist3812-example-repo-for-artifact

# What happens to history as it gets digitized?

"What happens to history as it gets digitized? That is, what does history look like, what happens to our materials, and the stories we tell or the questions we ask, as we abstract further and further away from ‘In Real Life’? What does ‘digital history’ really mean?"

So to answer the question I believe it should be broken down into three main parts that hopefully lead to answer of what digital history is. The three distinctions I have made come directly from the question: what does history look like? What about the materials? And what about the narratives that are told? I've come to the conclusion that history isn't one thing, but an ever changing thing that people can induce their own perspectives and project their own ideas on to it which warps and mutates it. 

# What does History look like?
In many of my other classes Professors have emphasized that history is as much about the present as it is about the past. Events in the past, especially in the distant past, can only be speculated about. There is only so much that can be understood about an event without living in that time and even then it is still only one perspective. Basically, history can be seen through a series of records and artifacts however there is not one way that history can look. One of the first concepts introduced in the course is that through digital archeology, history can be represented in many ways. Through the introduction of technology archeology has changed and that has necessitated a change in what can be considered a historical object. It no longer has to be an "original" object, it allows for replicas and reconstructions to have the same authority. Which leads me to my first main point about what history looks like; History is always a mutant. 
In every module we were successful at creating something, but we were not successful at creating an exact copy of the object. The best module to exemplify this is module one. From the very beginning, regardless of who did the scanning, how many pictures were taken, and how many different lighting angles were used, William always ended up with a distorted face. That is not an accurate depiction of what our model of William looked like. This continued to be a running theme in our modules. Every time something did not translate digitally, we lost and mutated William in some way. Through the loss of William's and the Ishtar Gate's missing textures, we lost context for why we chose and Egyptian figurine to face a Mesopotamian Gate. In our final module William was so distorted it barely looked like a hippopotamus was used, let alone purposely altered with all the accidental alterations that occured through the digitization process. Because of this, history and certainly not digital history does not have one definite look to it. 

# Materials
This aspect of the course is what interested me the most. Materially, what is history? How does they change with the digitization? Through our modules this mutation is obvious which is one way that our object changed. This can because of the programs we were using, our own limitations using it. I know that I have been almost entirely useless in the actual "making" of our objects. I'm about as proficient with technology as somebody four times my age, and most of the programs we used were PC or android based which I don't have. Most of my work on this project was done behind the scenes. Brainstorming, researching, writing paradata, things of that like however I tried to be there when Kurt was "making" our modules so I could see what he was doing and how it impacted our outcome. But back to the matter at hand, our own comfort and ability to use the technology significantly hindered the speed at which we put our modules together. It also left us with some serious last-minute changes that had to be made and we didn't have the skill to make everything exactly how we wanted it to be. Along the same idea, our ability to manipulate our object with technology caused serious accidental changes to our object. Perhaps if we understood Scann3D better, we could have made William's face smooth producing a more accurate digital model. Perhaps if we understood Sketchfab better we could have added William and the Ishtar Gate's textures back so we could talk more about the historical significance we were attempting to represent between the two objects. (And to a certain degree fabricate and create.) This reminded me a lot of the article about remixing objects "Rethinking the Digital Remix: Mash‐ups and the Metaphysics of Sound Recording" by David J. Gunkel. Although what we attempted to do was nowhere near as technical, we were trying to change our objects from their original state to one of our own creation. So besides, the object changing from something tangible, to something that we could manipulate without compromising the original object, our object changed in ways we had little control over. 

# Narrative
One intentional change that I am the most proud of, is how we changed William's excavation. It seemed every attempt I made to find out more information about excavating in Egypt in the early 20th century there was some problem accessing the information. (This is reflected in our paradate from this module found at https://github.com/margaretrussell/hist3812-example-repo-for-artifact/blob/master/paradatamodule3.md) The two most helpful books, and quite possibly the only two in Carleton's library were taken out with return dates significantly after the due date of the module. This might actually have been a good thing however. I was able to my childhood obsession with Ancient Egypt in combination with weird movies that have Grandfatherly figures telling unrealistic stories to synthesize the two into the concept for our third module game. Through twine we changed William from his original faience hippo/our replica to this object of mystery. We attempted to create a new narrative for William and how he was found and relates to his current place in modern Western society. (This idea of digital colonialism is discussed in our paradata as well as an article at http://www.factumfoundation.org/pag/236/) We also talked about that in our paradata, that our entire fictional story erased his Ancient Egyptian meaning. In this case it was simply easier to fabricate an entire meaning than it was to actually research and investigate his use contemporary to his time. It was mostly speculation anyway so we used that to our advantage. 

# Conclusion and Answer to "What is digital history?"

This class was rewarding to take and I think made me more aware of the problems associated with artifacts and how we, as a society, view them. Digitization objects in a way that does not change them is difficult at an amateur level but there is less pressure because they don't seem to carry as much clout as "authorized versions." Which brings about an interesting point about authorship, ownership, and censorship. All of these things were talked about in class and in our paradata but I don't think it really became evident how tricky it is to work within until my reflection on it. I know that I don't own the original William, only a replica of him. However does that mean that because my replica was bought that I have to ability to do with it whatever I want? Because I paid for him, does this mean even a small part of him is mine? Because the replica was bought from the British National Museum instead of the Metropolitan Museum of Art (where he is part of the collection) is he even a "real" replica? Why is gate-keeping such a major part of museums? Ultimately, I have no answers for these questions, but I can say with definity I would not have even considered these questions without my exploration through the modules in this course. 

# Bibliography

Gunkel, David J. 2008 Rethinking the Digital Remix: Mash‐ups and the Metaphysics of Sound Recording. Popular Music and Society 31, no. 4: 489–510. http://resolver.scholarsportal.info/resolve/03007766/v31i0004/489_rtdrmatmosr.xml.

 “IDA Palmyra Arch Copy.” Accessed 24 April 2017. http://www.factumfoundation.org/pag/236/

